# PISA-School-Questionnaire-Visualization
PISA (Program for International Student Assessment), developed in 1997 by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The PISA study aims to compare and test the achievement of school children around the world while increasing the standardization and improvement in educational methods. PISA tests the success of 15-year-old students every three years internationally. PISA measures math literacy, science literacy, and reading skills. Apart from lessons, PISA also evaluates students’ family lives, students’ opinions about themselves, school environments, and motivations. The concept of literacy used in PISA is about measuring the potential of students and being useful person to society. One of the factors that most affect the success of the student in these areas is the school. Factors such as the school’s educational environment and its adequate financial resources also play a role in the success of the student. In this study, we used PISA 2018 School Questionnaires dataset. This questionnaire asks for information about school background information, school management, teaching staff, assessment and evaluation, and school climate. There are 33 questions in the survey. Each of these questions has answers in the dataset according to its number. Apart from the answers to the questions, the dataset also contains features such as the location of the school, school size, school type, and the number of classes. The reason we chose this data set is that we wanted to show the effect of the questions in the questionnaire and the features of the school on success. To do this, we would have to visualize the data. We used the Python programming language that has some of the most interactive data zvisualization libraries for visualization. A few of the most used libraries are Matplotlib, Seaborn, and Plotly. Matplotlib is a 2D drawing library that helps us analysts visualize figures and Seaborn is a statistical Python data visualization library based on the Matplotlib library. Seaborn offers users a high-level interface to make statistical visualizations. We used these two libraries for visualization of the PISA results in this study.
